>> Speaker 1: With Next's new emphasis on
React server components, is there a new
suggestion for full stack JS frameworks
that can work with an already built API?
Or would the suggestion be
using lots of use client and
not really taking advantage
of RSCs throughout the app?
>> Brian Holt: Yep, it's a good question.
So if you have a very client-heavy app and
RSCs are not really solving a problem for
you, then what do you do?
Well, a couple suggestions.
You can use Next in a way that
doesn't have RSCs as much,
but you're gonna run into
exactly what you're saying.
My suggestion is look either at
Remix/React Router 7 or TanStack Start.
Remix already being stable and
TanStack Start.
I mean, I don't know when he's gonna GA,
but it's soon, I think.
I know 1.0 is coming very, very soon.
Maybe by the time that this
is viewable on the stream,
that TanStack Start will be stable.
My very biased, very personal opinion
here is, I like TanStack Start.
I like Tanner's approach to
building all these things.
SolidStart is already out there for
SolidJS, and
those are kind of converging technologies,
and I like SolidStart.
I like the choices they made there.
I like the client-first approach
with a light sprinkling of server,
as opposed to server-first and
then a light sprinkling of client.
So all that to say, your two best bets are
gonna be either Remix or TanStack Start.
And that's really just gonna be your
opinion of which one you like better.
They're both extremely
valid opinions to hold.
>> Speaker 1: Any tips for
self-hosting Next.js?
Is it available or
is it just better to stay with Vercel?
>> Brian Holt: It's totally available.
Any tips, you just run it like a Node
service, to be really honest with you.
You lose some of that.
They build Next intentionally so that it
works better on their infrastructure.
Again, it's part them just saying,
what can we do even better?
And it's part just product thinking of,
how do we keep a captive audience?
All that to say, it's not any harder
to host than any other Node service.
Do I have any special, no, just whatever
you would do with the normal Node service,
you'll do with Next.js.
Plenty of people do it, by the way.
>> Speaker 1: Any suggestions on how to
write tests for use deferred value and
use transition with something
like React Testing Library?
>> Brian Holt: That's a good question,
I haven't tested the core
function at those functions.
This would be one of the things,
you'd be really tempted to
test the framework, right?
Where you're saying,
if I do this it, is it deferred?
And don't do that.
React has its own suite of tests.
The test does use deferred
value do what it does.
The way I would approach this would be
much more from a user-centric perspective
of, what am I expecting
the user to experience, right?
So if a user does this action,
is the immediate action correct,
and does it reconcile eventually
to the correct state?
If you approach it that way, then you're
actually going to be serving your users,
as opposed to just testing what
React already tests itself to do.
I don't know if I have more
specific advice to that.
>> Speaker 1: Do you have any suggestions
on building a career in React?
Should we focus on Next.js, or
Remix, or any other framework?
>> Brian Holt: That's a good question.
>> Brian Holt: So having done a decent
amount of hiring over the years,
particularly of junior developers,
the thing that impressed me most were
people that had some project that
they were really passionate about.
They went super deep on it, and
they learned a bunch of stuff, and
I'll give you an example.
When I hired someone at Reddit,
I probably had 600 resumes
that came in for one person.
We probably narrowed it down
to 30 interview people, and
the person that I hired didn't
have the most experience,
didn't have the widest
breadth of technologies.
And actually, probably most interesting
to you all is that his experience
didn't match the stack
that I was hiring for.
But he was, first of all,
smart, and then his experiences,
GitHub showed that he had built this
an entire, I think it was Rails.
I really don't remember, but mismatched to
the Python Django at the time,
so React stack at that point.
And I was really impressed
by the depth and
the passion that he had
come at with those things.
And he had gone really deep
on these technologies.
And so throwing him at Python and
Django and
React was easy because he
applied that same tenacity and
that interest to learning the stack
that we needed him to learn.
And ended up being a phenomenal hire, one
of the best hires I've probably ever made.
So really, my answer is, I don't think
I really care as a hiring manager,
did you pick Next or did you pick Remix?
If you're picking for just the most
generally applicable, it's gonna be Next,
cuz Next is just getting shipped
a lot more than the other ones.
But if I'm your hiring manager,
I don't care, right?
I would much rather see a phenomenal
Remix app than a crappy Next one.
So my general advice to just junior
developers in general is follow
what just gets you excited about code and
just go real deep.
Just do as much as you can and
ship something.
Don't take me to 75% the fun part and
then don't ship the last 25%.
Actually ship things.
You learn so
much in the hard parts of shipping things.
And that's where I get really impressed.
If I can go onto your GitHub,
see that you have this one Repo, and
I don't care how many stars it has,
it just means that's marketing.
But if I can download it, if I can npm
install, and if I can see this app
running, and I'm impressed by it,
that's gonna count for a ton more points.
So I know that's kind of a sidestepping
answer as well, but just go deep,
be interested, be passionate, follow
what makes you interested in something.
And I think you'll end up with something
more important than you did Remix
versus you did Next.
>> Speaker 1: Any suggestions how to
approach full text search on statically
generated sites?
>> Brian Holt: Full text search,
that's gonna depend on your application.
If you really need to do it in a browser,
that's gonna carry its own
set of interesting problems.
There's plenty of libraries out there of
people that have thought through this that
you could use as well.
But I mean,
you're asking the Postgres guy,
do you have a Postgres-shaped problem?
And my answer is always going to be yes
because Postgres does everything, right?
So yes, by all means,
Elasticsearch or any one of those
will work just fine, or
Pinecone or something like that.
But my opinion, I just use Postgres for
everything these days.
So I would probably just rely on Postgres,
and then if you're doing vector search or
something like that, then PGVector or
PG RAG or something like that.
Otherwise, you can get some other
off-the-shelf service that sits on top,
like Solr or Elasticsearch or
something like that.
>> Speaker 1: When managing server-side
versus client-side components,
any recommend patterns for
large scale projects?
Like how to build things so
that changing a component from the server
side to client side and
vice versa doesn't have a domino effect?
>> Brian Holt: In reality,
I don't find myself really changing
my components that frequently.
Generally, if I write an RSC, it doesn't
later become a client-side component.
And I kind of alluded this early
to when we were speaking about it
earlier in the course.
But you find yourself pushing client
state further and further down the tree so
that you don't have to make
the client components.
So I guess my advice there is, one,
it doesn't seem to happen to me very much,
just by virtue of the way
I structure my next steps.
Secondly, the thing that you do is you
just push your client code as far down
as you can.
And then thirdly,
don't fear client-side code.
It's not like it's a big,
huge, ugly beast.
When it does happen,
I guess when it does happen,
you're just gonna have to refactor
your code to handle that.
But I don't know, it's not something
that I find myself running into, so
it's not something I really fear,
or it's not something I really
prepare my code for very frequently.
>> Brian Holt: Usually,
there's a clear divide,
this definitely should be a React server
component cuz it reads from the database.
And this is accepting user input, so
it definitely should be a client one.
And the amount of middle ground of this
could be either is usually quite small.